My name is Nina.  I'm thirty-six years old.  Last year, I fled my home in Iran, shortly after converting from Islam to Christianity.

As a young woman, I studied in Iran and Turkey.  I returned to Tehran to join my family business – making and selling wedding dresses.

I was brought up as a Muslim, and I knew very little about Christianity.  Last year, one of my clients introduced me to the Bible. The Bible was different from everything I had read before. I felt an instant love for Jesus and I felt his unconditional love for me. What I wanted more than anything was to embrace fully this faith that enriched my life so much.

But denouncing Islam and converting to another religion is one of the most dangerous things I could do in Iran. While Christianity is not banned like some other religions, the act of conversion is considered a serious crime that often carries a death sentence.

Still, I started going to clandestine Christian meetings at a private house, so that I could be around and learn from fellow Christians.  One day the State police raided my house and shop, but luckily I happened to be somewhere else.

I went into hiding and within a few days my family arranged for an agent to smuggle me out of the country. My life was in his hands, I didn’t know where he was taking me or when we would arrive at our destination. He brought me to Liverpool in the UK and left me all alone.

My life was in pieces. The Home Office didn’t believe me and refused my claim for asylum. I was on my own, without enough money to even call my family back home; I don’t know how I would have survived those days without my faith.

I am very grateful for the help I received from the state, but it is really difficult to live on £35** a week. You have to have credit on your phone and you have to have warm clothes, but then you can’t afford to buy food - nothing special - just normal food. When you buy enough food, you don’t have any money left to pay for a bus. It was very, very difficult.

My journey to safety went from bad to worse. I had to go through the courts to prove that my initial claim for protection had been wrongly refused. But following my appeal, I was recognised as a refugee and allowed to stay in the UK.

Unfortunately, I then became street homeless in the middle of the winter, sleeping in a night shelter for a whole month.  I went to Refugee Action in Manchester feeling ill and exhausted. They gave me a cup of tea, access to a shower, and found a hostel room for me to move to immediately. They also sorted out my new benefits and my life started to feel a bit more normal again.

A few months later, I'm rebuilding my life. I've secured a place on a fashion design course at a college, hoping that a diploma will help me find a job in a near future. And every Sunday, I go to my local church, free and unafraid to follow my faith.
